---
layout: post
title: Cook Condemns Pre-WWDC Leaks
date: 2013-06-10 01:22 UTC-4
---

CUPERTINO, CALIFORNIA – On the eve before he was due to keynote Apple’s Worldwide Developer Conference on Monday, at which the company is expected to unveil its newest mobile operating system and a slew of other product updates, CEO Tim Cook spoke publicly about the previous week’s media leaks of Apple information to British newspaper *The Guardian*. On Wednesday last week, Brazil-based lawyer and outspoken Apple critic Glenn Greenwald published in that newspaper a highly secret Apple internal memo, in which Apple general counsel Bruce Sewell signs off on a program to surveil Apple’s customers around the globe. On Thursday, Greenwald published a Keynote presentation that provides many details about the surveillance program. The program apparently works by aggregating every interaction a user has with an Apple device, and feeding the data into a massive pool of intelligence that spans Apple’s global customer base. The program, which is internally called iSPY, was disavowed by Apple’s Press Relations department, which stated that it (the department) had “no idea” the program existed. On Sunday, the newspaper published another scoop—a web portal called INFINITE SPOTLIGHT, which shows the worldwide breakdown of Apple’s intelligence operations. According to the newspaper, the web interface provides company analysts with real-time, worldwide information on Apple customers’ movements, habits, associations, and conversations.

Asked about the leaks, Cook had this to say:

> Leaks of this nature harm Apple’s brand and ability to keep our customers satisfied. These programs were clearly authorized by Apple’s Terms of Service in our various products, and our analysts and engineers constantly provide oversight to make sure everything’s running well within defined parameters. We understand that some customers may find these intrusions “inconvenient”, even inappropriate—but I assure you that this program is necessary if Apple is to keep satisfying consumer demand for revolutionary products. We simply know no other way to acquire information about our customers, and no better way to satisfy, than to constantly surveil customers. It has been suggested by some who think that Apple’s approach is reactionary, that we should change our focus—to, perhaps, researching user interface design, discovering how a product is meant to be used by using it ourselves, or aiming to be the best by doing what is consistent with our values and our heritage. But I reject these notions, because they do not provide satisfaction that is both instant and discernible. I wish I could say more, but our customers would obviously be dangered by further elaboration of this subject.

In a follow-up interview, Cook pressed the point that to properly provide customer satisfaction is the only legitimate purpose for a corporation. In order to provide that satisfaction, it is the corporation’s duty to use as much information as possible to formulate a policy of consumer satisfaction. But much of the press focus has not been so much on the program itself, but rather the secret world that brought it to life and that shields it from public scrutiny. Asked why such secrecy is required, Cook deflected: “I know you want me to say ‘this program has fixed this and this problem, and has brought about this revolutionary product’. I simply can’t say that, because those details are necessarily secret.”
